so there's an actor called Dustin
Hoffman and years ago he made this movie
which some of you may have heard of
called the Graduate and there's two key
scenes in that movie the first one is
the seduction scene I'm not going to
talk about that tonight
the second scene is where he's taken out
by the old guy to the pool and as a
young college graduate the old guy
basically says one word just one word
and of course all you know what that
word is it's plastics and the only
problem with that is it was completely
the wrong advice let me tell you why it
was so wrong the word should have been
silica and the reason that should have
been silicon is because the basic
patents for semiconductors had already
been made had already been filed and
they were already building them so
Silicon Valley was just being built in
1967 when this movie is released and the
year after the movie is released
Intel is founded so had the Graduate
heard the right one word maybe he would
have ended up on stage oh I don't know
maybe with these two
so as you're thinking of that let's see
what bit of advice we might want to give
so that your next graduate doesn't
become a Tupperware salesman so in 2015
what word advice would you give people
when you took a college graduate out by
the pool and you said one word just one
word I think the answer would be life
coat so what is life coat life coat is
the various ways we have with
programming life so instead of
programming computers were using things
to program viruses or retroviruses or
proteins or DNA or RNA or plants or
animals or a whole series of creatures
and as you're thinking about this
incredible ability to make life do what
you want it to do what it's programmed
to do what you end up doing is you end
up taking what we've been doing for
thousands of years which is breeding
changing mixing matching all kinds of
life forms and we accelerate and this is
not something new this humble mustard
weed has been modified so if you change
it in one way you get broccoli and if
you change it in a second way you get
kale and if you change it in a third way
you get cauliflower so when you go to
these all-natural organic markets you're
really going to a place that people have
been changing the life coat of plants
for a long time the difference today to
pick a completely politically neutral
term is
we're beginning to practice intelligent
design and that means that instead of
doing this at random and seeing what
happens over generations we're inserting
specific genes we're inserting specific
proteins and we're changing life code
for very deliberate purposes and that
allows us to accelerate how this stuff
happens let me just give you one example
some of you occasionally might think
about sex and we kind of take it for
granted how we change sex so we think
it's perfectly normal and natural to
change it and what's happened with sex
over time is normally sex equals baby
eventually but in today's world sex plus
pill equals no baby and and again we
think that's perfectly normal and
natural but that has not been the case
for most of human history and it's not
the case for animals and what it does is
it gives us control so sex becomes
separate from conception and you're
thinking the consequences of that then
we've been playing with stuff that's a
little bit more advanced like art not in
the sense of painting and sculpture but
in the sense of assisted reproductive
technologies right so water assisted
reproductive technologies assisted
reproductive technologies for things
like in vitro fertilization and when you
do in vitro fertilization there's very
good reasons to do it you know sometimes
you just can't conceive otherwise but
when you do that what you're doing is
you're separating sex conception baby so
you can't just take in control when you
have baby you've separated when the baby
and where the baby is fertilized so
you've separated the baby from the body
from the act and as you're thinking of
other things that we've been doing think
about twins so you can freeze sperm you
can freeze eggs you can freeze
fertilized eggs and what does that mean
well that's a good thing if you're a
cancer patient you're about to go under
chemotherapy or you're about to go under
radiation so you save these things you
don't radiate them but if you can save
them you can freeze them and you can
have a surrogate mother
means that you decouple sex from time
means you can have twins or an O in 50
years in a hundred years and two hundred
years right
and these are three mainly profound
changes that are not like future stuff
this is stuff that we take for granted
today so this life code stuff turns out
to be a superpower it turns out to be
this incredibly powerful way of changing
viruses of changing plants of changing
animals perhaps even of evolving
ourselves it's something that Steve
Collins and I have been thinking about
for a while this has some risks like
every powerful technology like
electricity like an automobile like
computers this stuff potentially can be
misused and that scares a lot of people
and as you apply these technologies you
can even turn human beings into chimeras
remember the Greek myth where you mix
animals well some of these treatments
actually end up changing your blood type
or they'll put male cells and female
body or vice versa which sounds
absolutely horrible until you realize
the reason you're doing that is you're
substituting bone marrow during cancer
treatments so by taking somebody else's
bone marrow you may be changing some
fundamental aspects of yourself but
you're also saving your life and as
you're thinking about the stuff here's
something that happened 20 years ago so
this is Emma OTT she's a recent College
anima t-shi studying accounting she
played two varsity sports she graduate
as a valedictorian and that's not
particularly extraordinary except that
she's the first human being born to
three parents why because she had a
deadly mitochondrial disease that she
might have inherited so when you swap
out a third person's DNA and you put it
in there you save the lives of people
but you also doing germline engineering
which means her kids will be she has
kids will be saved and will go through
this and her kids will be saved and
their grandchildren will be saved in
this pass is on
that makes people nervous so 20 years
ago the various authorities said why
don't we study this for a lot and there
are risks to doing stuff and the risk to
not to make stuff because there were a
couple of dozen people saved by this
technology and then we've been thinking
about it for the next 20 years so as we
think about as we take the time to say
hey maybe we should have longer studies
maybe we should do this maybe we should
do that there are consequences to acting
and there are consequences to not acting
like carrying deadly diseases which by
the way is completely unnatural right it
is normal natural for humans to be
felled by massive epidemics of polio of
smallpox of tuberculosis when we put
vaccines into people we are putting
unnatural things into their body because
we think the benefit way out weighs the
risk because we've built unnatural
plants on natural animals we can feed
about 7 billion people we can do things
like create new life-forms and as you
create new life-forms again that sounds
terribly scary and terribly bothersome
until you realize those life-forms live
on your dining room table those flowers
you've got on your dining room table
there's not a lot that's natural about
them because people have been breeding
the flowers to make this color to be the
size to last for a week you don't
usually give your loved one wild flowers
because they don't last a whole lot a
whole lot of time what all this does is
it flips Darwin completely on his head
see for 4 billion years what lived and
died on this planet depended on two
principles on natural selection and
random mutation and so what lived and
died what was structured has now been
flipped on its head
and what we're done is we've created
this completely parallel evolutionary
system where we are practicing unnatural
selection and non-random mutation so let
me explain these things this is natural
selection this is unnatural selection
so what happens with this stuff is we
started breeding wolves thousands of
years ago in Central Asia to turn them
into dogs and when we start turning them
into big dogs and we start turning in
little little dogs but if you take one
of the chihuahuas you see in the Hermes
bags on Fifth Avenue and you let it
loose on the African plain you can watch
natural selection happen few things on
earth are less natural than a cornfield
right you will never under any scenario
walk through a virgin forest and see the
same plant growing in orderly rows at
the same time nothing else living there
when you do a cornfield you're selecting
what lives and what dots and you're
doing that through unnatural selection
and it's the same with a wheat field
it's the same with a rice field it's the
same with a city it's the same with a
suburb in fact half the surface of Earth
has been unnaturally engineered so that
one lives and what dies there is what we
want which is the reason why you don't
have grizzly bears walking through
downtown Manhattan how about this random
mutation stuff well this is random
mutation this is Antonio alfonseca he's
otherwise known as the octopus is his
nickname he was a relief pitcher of the
year in 2000 and he had a random
mutation that gave me six fingers on
each ant which turns out to be really
useful if you're a pitcher
how about non-random mutation a
non-random mutation is beer its wine its
yogurt how many times have you walked
through a forest and found all natural
cheese or all natural yogurt right so
we've been engineering this stuff now
the interesting thing is we get to know
this stuff better we found one of a
single most powerful gene editing
instruments CRISPR inside yogurt and as
we start engineering cells we're
producing eight out of the top ten
pharmaceutical products including the
stuff that you use to treat arthritis
which is the number one best-selling
drug in era
so this life coat stuff it really is a
superpower
it really is a way of programming stuff
and there's nothing that's going to
change us more than this life code so as
you're thinking of life code let's think
of five principles as to how we start
guiding and I'd love you to give me more
so principle number one we have to take
responsibility for this stuff and the
reason we have to take responsibility is
because we're in charge these aren't
random mutations this is what we are
doing what we are choosing it's not
stuff happened it didn't happen at
random it didn't come down by a verdict
to somebody else we engineered this and
it's the Pottery Barn rule you break it
you own it
principle number two we have to
recognize and celebrate diversity in
this stuff there have been at least 33
versions of hominids that have walked
around the circuit most all one extinct
except us but the normal natural state
of the surface we have various versions
of humans walking around the same time
which is why most of us have some
Neanderthal on us some of us have some
Vanessa Linus and some in Washington
have a lot more principle number three
we have to respect other people's
choices some people will choose to never
alter some people will choose to alter
all some people choose to alter plants
but not animals some people will choose
to alter themselves some people choose
to volume selves diversity is not a bad
thing because even though we think of
humans as very diverse we came so close
to extinction that all of us descend
from a single African mother and the
consequence of that is there's more
genetic diversity in 55 African
chimpanzees than there are in 7 billion
humans principle number four we should
take about a quarter of the earth and
only let Darwin run the sheller it
doesn't have to be continuous it doesn't
have to all be tied together it should
be part in the oceans part on land but
we should not run every evolutionary
decision on this plan we want to have
our evolutionary system running we want
to have Darwin's evolutionary system
running and it's just really important
to have these two things running in
parallel and not overwhelm evolution
last thing I'll say this is the single
most exciting adventure human visas have
been on this is a single greatest
superpower humans have ever had it would
be a crime for you not to participate in
the stuff because you're scared because
you're hiding from it you can
participate in the ethics you can
participate in the politics you can
participate in the business you can
participate in just thinking about where
medicine is going and where industry is
going and where we're going to take the
world it would be a crime for all of us
not to be aware when somebody shows up
at a swimming pool and says one word
just one word if you don't listen if
that word is life cut thank you very
much
you